.\"
.\"
.\" Blame: Roland Dowdeswell <elric@imrryr.org>
.Dd October 5, 2009
.Os
.Dt KRB5_KEYTAB.CONF 5
.Sh NAME
.Nm krb5_keytab.conf
.Nd configuration file for
.Xr krb5_keytab 8
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is the configuration file for
.Xr krb5_keytab 8 .
The syntax is a Perl snippet which is evaluated and is expected to
set the following variables:
.Bl -tag -width @allowed_enctypesxxx
.It @admin_users
is a list of users who are allowed to perform administrative functions.
That is, they can operate on other user's keytabs and avoid the system
encryption type policies.
.It @allowed_enctypes
is a list of acceptable encryption types that even administrative
users cannot over-ride.
.It $default_krb5_lib
is the default Kerberos library version if it is not specified.
.It %krb5_libs
is a hash mapping Kerberos library versions to an array ref of supported
encryption types.
.It %krb5_lib_quirks
is a hash mapping Kerberos library versions to an array ref of keytab
management bugs (quirks) that must be considered when constructing or
testing a keytab.
.It $use_fetch
is a boolean value which tells
.Xr krb5_keytab 8
whether it should attempt to fetch keys from the KDC.
By default the KDC will refuse these requests, so only enable this option
if you have configured the KDC allow the fetching of keys.
See
.Ar $allow_fetch
in
.Xr krb5_admind.conf 5 .
This value defaults to 0.
.It %user2service
is a hash mapping users to an array ref containing additional service
principals that the user may request to be placed in its keytab.
This mechanism will eventually be replaced with a more general mechanism
which allows for hostbased specification of this concept.
.It %user_libs
is a hash mapping users to an array ref containing a list of acceptable
Kerberos libraries which the user may use.
Administrative users may not over-ride this restriction.
.El
.Pp
Syntax errors will terminate parsing causing all subsequent configuration
to be ignored and so it is critical that they not be present.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr krb5_keytab 8 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
was written by Roland C. Dowdeswell.
