.\"
.\"
.\" Blame: Roland Dowdeswell <elric@imrryr.org>
.Dd August 31, 2007
.Os
.Dt KRB5_KEYTAB 8
.Sh NAME
.Nm krb5_keytab
.Nd kerberos keytab management client
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl AFUZfvw
.Op Fl p Ar user
.Op Fl L Ar lib
.Op Fl R Ar ktroot
.Op Fl X Ar xrealm
.Op Fl W Ar winprinc
.Op Ar princ ...
.Nm
.Fl c
.Op Fl AFUZfv
.Op Fl p Ar user
.Op Fl L Ar lib
.Op Fl R Ar ktroot
.Op Ar princ ...
.Nm
.Fl Ug
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl R Ar ktroot
.Op Fl p Ar user
.Op Ar princ ...
.Nm
.Fl l
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl R Ar ktroot
.Op Fl p Ar user
.Nm
.Fl q
.Op Fl Uv
.Op Fl R Ar ktroot
.Op Fl p Ar user
.Op Ar princ ...
.Nm
.Fl t
.Op Fl Uv
.Op Fl p Ar user
.Op Fl L Ar lib
.Op Fl R Ar ktroot
.Op Ar princ ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
will create, fetch or rotate the Kerberos keys and ensure that the
correct keys are installed.
.Pp
In general,
.Nm
should be called in the start scripts of the server that requires the
keytab.
If run as the user in question, it requires no arguments and will simply
fetch all of the keys necessary.
.Nm
can also be run as root but in this case, it is necessary to specify the
.Fl p Ar user
or the
.Fl A
flag.
.Pp
The
.Ar princ
arguments are Kerberos principals with the following completion rules:
.Bl -enum
.It
If the realm is missing, then the default realm is appended.
.It
If the instance is missing then all hostname instances are appended,
i.e.: if one supplies ``foo'' or ``foo@REALM'' on a machine with hostnames
bar and baz then it will expand to the principals foo/bar@REALM and
foo/baz@REALM.
Note that this will not append the cluster names as
not all services are expected to run on all cluster addresses.
If
.Fl U
is specified then the username is prepended to the hostname.
.El
.Pp
.Nm
will then construct a connexion to a KDC and request the appropriate
keys, creating or rotating them if necessary.
If the keys need to be created or rotated then
.Nm
will need to connect to the master KDC.
.Pp
.Nm
is designed to be run in the start logic of applications that require
keytabs.
There is no attempt made to persist keys across rebuilds or reboots and
in fact, the assumption is that if a host is rebuilt and does not request
a service key again then said service key is no longer being used and is
eligible for removal.
.Pp
.Nm
creates keys that are compatible with the Kerberos library specified by the
optional
.Fl L Ar library
argument.
The library should be specified as the Kerberos libraries that are used by
the server which will use the keytab.
If an incorrect library is specified then the keys created or generated may
not be compatible with your server.
The default library is specified in the configuration file.
Specifying certain legacy libraries requires administrative privileges.
.Pp
Please note that although,
.Nm
will create stronger keys, it will not [currently] modify existing keys if called on a machine which already has keys provisioned for a service.
It will simply retrieve the existing keys from the KDC.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indentxxxxxx
.It Fl A
specifies that
.Nm
will fetch the host keys for the machine.
This requires that
.Nm
is run as root and will prompt for Kerberos admin credentials.
.It Fl F
will force the keytab to be rewritten and also implies
.Fl f .
.It Fl L Ar lib
specifies that the Kerberos libraries that the server uses are
.Ar lib .
This information will be used to determine what encryption types are
supported, so it is essential that this is correct.
The default is mitkrb5/1.4 when creating new keys.
When changing keys, the current encryption types will be preserved unless the
.Fl L Ar library
option is specified.
.It Fl R Ar ktroot
prepends
.Ar ktroot
to the beginning of all paths referring to keytabs that we are managing.
This will not affect the path to the keytab we use to authenticate to the KDC.
This option is only available to root.
.It Fl U
prepends the username to the hostname used to construct default
instances where they are not specified.
I.e. host.example.com becomes username.host.example.com.
.It Fl W Ar winprinc
specifies that
.Nm
will use the Windows principal
.Ar winprinc
as a client when contacting the KDC.
The principal must be fully qualified including the realm and
must exist in
.Pa /etc/krb5.keytab .
.It Fl X Ar xrealm
specifies that
.Nm
will use the realm
.Ar xrealm
to construct the client principal in preference to
the realm of the requested principal.
.It Fl Z
operate on a local Kerberos DB rather than talking to the network.
This mode is useful for startup scripts on the master KDC but it
should only be used on the master KDC and not on any slave KDCs
as that would cause the Kerberos DB on that slave to be out of
synchronisation with the master with perhaps less than desired
results.
.It Fl c
change the keys.
.It Fl f
force contact with a KDC.
By default,
.Nm
will not contact a KDC if the keytab tests correctly.
This flag overrides this behaviour.
Do not use this flag in any automated use, it is designed for
human intervention only.
.It Fl g
will cause
.Nm
to read the current keytab and issue a list of commands that would generate
an equivalent keytab under certain assumptions.
.It Fl l
lists the current keytab.
This flag is for administrators only.
.It Fl p Ar user
the user for which keys are to be obtained.
This option is only relevant for administrative users.
.It Fl q
will describe the keytab in a human readable format.
.It Fl t
tests if the specified keys in are compatible with the current library
version as specified by the
.Fl L Ar library
option.
.It Fl v
increase the verbose level.
.It Fl w
will look for a Windows principal during a xrealm bootstrap operation.
This flag must be specified in conjunction with
.Fl X Ar xrealm .
The Windows principal selected will be the first valid principal which
is in the realm
.Ar xrealm
containing only one component which is terminated with a dollar sign.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Nm
exits 0 on success and >0 if an error occurred.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width indentxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx -compact
.It Pa /etc/krb5_keytab.conf
is the configration file for krb5_keytab.
.El 
.Sh EXAMPLES
If running as an ID, to create a keytab for the default version of the
Kerberos libraries containing all possible service principals configured
for the host:
.Bd -literal
	$ krb5_keytab
.Ed
.Pp
If only a certain principal needs to be created:
.Bd -literal
	$ krb5_keytab service/hostname
.Ed
.Pp
To fetch Kerberos credentials host/<hostname>@BAR.EXAMPLE.COM using
host/<hostname>@FOO.EXAMPLE.COM:
.Bd -literal
	$ krb5_keytab -X FOO.EXAMPLE.COM host@BAR.EXAMPLE.COM
.Ed
.Pp
To test if a keytab contains keys that are compatible with a certain version
of the Kerberos libraries:
.Bd -literal
	$ krb5_keytab -t -L mitkrb5/1.3
.Ed
.Pp
Or to test if just a single principal has keys that are compatible with
a certain version of the Kerberos libraries:
.Bd -literal
	$ krb5_keytab -t -L sunjdk/1.6 HTTP/host.example.com
.Ed
.Pp
To generate a list of commands that would create a functionally equivalent
keytab for a particular user:
.Bd -literal
	$ krb5_keytab -g -p user
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr knc 1 ,
.Xr krb5_keytabd 8 .
.Sh BUGS
Key rotation is not yet implemented.
